# Source files for the paper: *‘seqwrap: an R package for flexible iterative fitting of high-dimensional data’*
Chidimma Echebiri<sup>1,2</sup> Rafi Ahmad<sup>1,3</sup> Stian
Ellefsen<sup>2</sup> Daniel Hammarström<sup>2,£</sup>

<sup>1</sup>Department of Biotechnology, University of Inland Norway -
Hamar, Norway

<sup>2</sup>Department of Public Health and Sport Sciences, University
of Inland Norway - Lillehammer, Norway

<sup>3</sup>Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences,
UiT - The Arctic University of Norway, Hansine Hansens veg 18, 9019,
Tromsø, Norway

<sup>£</sup>Contact: Daniel Hammarström - daniel.hammarstrom@inn.no

## Introduction

This repository contains all relevant code to reproduce the results
presented in the paper *“seqwrap: an R package for flexible iterative
fitting of high-dimensional data”* (in review). The paper presents the
[seqwrap](https://github.com/trainome/seqwrap) package, designed for the
analysis of omic-type (e.g., RNA-seq, proteomics) data using
user-defined regression models.

### Repository structure and content

#### Source files for docs

- `supplement.qmd` Running this file reproduces the supplementary
  document (supplement.pdf), including the tables and figures therein.

- `supplement.R` is a sourceable version of the quarto file
  (`supplement.qmd`).

- `manuscript-docx-v3.qmd` Contains the manuscript, with relevant code
  for presenting results.

#### Scripts

- `/R` This directory contains the scripts used to produce the results
  presented in the paper.

  1.  `data-prep.R` The script prepares data and fits a preliminary
      model to the [Pillion
      study](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36070371/) data set
      (available as part of the seqwrap package). If estimates are
      available, the script loads the data and prepares a model for the
      mean-dispersion relationship based on the data used to generate
      simulated counts.

  2.  `simulation-functions.R` Contains R functions used at different
      points of the analysis, such as the function to simulate data sets
      and summary functions. The other files (except data-prep.R) load
      and execute this file to make the functions and variables in the
      script available in the R environment

  3.  `m1-m5-pillion-data.R` This file builds and saves the models based
      on real-world data from the [Pillion
      study](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36070371/).

  4.  `make-sims.R` Runs the files `simulations.R` and `simulations2.R`,
      which contain the generation and modelling of the simulated data
      set reported in the paper. These scripts are time-consuming. Files
      generated by these scripts are placed in the `data_sim` folder.
      The generated datasets are also available for direct download from
      DataverseNO: https://doi.org/10.18710/I7U71O. See further
      instructions below.

- `/figures` The R files in this directory reproduce the figures in the
  paper with `figure-opts.R` defining the custom color palette used in
  the figures. Figure R files 2-4 require results from `data-prep.R`,
  `m1-m5-pillon-data.R`, and `make-sims.R`.

## Reproducing the results and figures in the article

To reproduce the analysis from scratch, we recommend you run the scripts
in this order.

1.  `data-prep.R`

2.  `/R/m1-m5-pillion-data.R` To reproduce the case study analysis

3.  `/R/make-sims.R` (or download data, see below) To reproduce the
    simulation data and analysis

4.  `/figures/figure-2.R` Will reproduce Figure 2

5.  `/figures/figure-3.R` Will reproduce Figure 3

6.  `/figures/figure-4.R` Will reproduce Figure 4

7.  `manuscript-docx-v3.qmd` Reproduces the manuscript file.

8.  `supplement.qmd` Reproduces the supplemental information file.

## Downloading simulated data and estimates

The analyses presented in the paper use data generated by simulations
and the analyses of those data. The results can be reproduced using
`make-sims.R`, however, the runtime for this process is several days on
a personal computer. The datasets are available for download from
DataverseNO: https://doi.org/10.18710/I7U71O.

The downloadable data is identical to that produced by the `make-sims.R`
script. Downloading the data enables direct reproduction of figures and
the manuscript.

Download the files and place them in a folder called `data_sim` in the
main directory. A total of 260 files (+ a README file) should be
downloaded. Once downloaded, the structure of the `data_sim` folder
should be:

    -- data_sim/
       |-- estimates/
       |   |-- m1_estimates_1.RDS
       |   |-- …
       |   |-- m5_estimates_10.RDS
       |-- estimates2/
       |   |-- m1_estimates_1.RDS
       |   |-- …
       |   |-- m5_estimates_10.RDS
       |-- evaluations/
       |   |-- m1_evaluations_1.RDS
       |   |-- …
       |   |-- m5_evaluations_10.RDS
       |-- evaluations2/
       |   |-- m1_evaluations_1.RDS
       |   |-- …
       |   |-- m5_evaluations_10.RDS
       |-- simdata/
       |   |-- clean/
       |   |   |-- clean_dataset_1.RDS
       |   |   |-- …
       |   |   |-- clean_dataset_10.RDS
       |   |-- popeffect/
       |   |   |-- population_effects_1.RDS
       |   |   |-- …
       |   |   |-- population_effects_10.RDS
       |   |-- raw/ 
       |       |-- dataset_1.RDS
       |       |-- …
       |       |-- dataset_10.RDS
       |-- simdata2/
           |-- clean/
           |   |-- clean_dataset_1.RDS
           |   |-- …
           |   |-- clean_dataset_10.RDS
           |-- popeffect/
           |   |-- population_effects_1.RDS
           |   |-- …
           |   |-- population_effects_10.RDS
           |-- raw/ 
               |-- dataset_1.RDS
               |-- …
               |-- dataset_10.RDS
